it was September I was happy healthy I
did have ovarian cysts and so my doctor
put me on birth control pills and I got
really depressed and four weeks later
BAM I was sitting in front of a
psychiatrist so the psychiatrist dr.
Martin he says to me on a scale of one
to ten how sad are you and I was
thinking oh my god is this how this
really works you know doesn't he need to
know what I mean specifically by five
for this to have any value so I'm doing
this calculation in my head and I'm
thinking okay I don't want to be an
eighth cousin it's a crisis I don't know
if this is a crisis and they don't want
to be a three because I don't even think
a 3-series enough to beat the
psychiatrist in the first place so I
said I'm a six right down the middle and
then he said on a scale of one to ten
how well are you sleeping seven on a
scale of one to ten how likely are you
to kill yourself
four on a scale of one to ten on a scale
of one to ten forty-five minutes go by
and he says I think it's clear that
you're suffering from depression and I
recommend that you start taking paxil
it's an excellent medication it's an
antidepressant it's going to take a
while to get the dose right but when we
do you are going to feel this light come
on inside you so we were eating at top
Tim Tai and my cousin Mike is telling
this hilarious story and I'm laughing
and all of a sudden something happens to
my hearing because the chopsticks at the
other people's tables they started
banging together and then their
silverware was bouncing off their plates
and I could see that Mike's mouth it was
still moving but I couldn't hear what he
was saying
because the dishwasher in the kitchen
had gotten really loud it was going
crude and I felt this fear just grip my
ankles and start rising up through my
body and I knew that we were all gonna
die we were all getting swallowed up by
this sound so I went back to dr. Martin
and I was telling him about the sound
and also that I'm not sleeping and I'm
nauseous all the time and my joints are
aching and my rash is back my rash
wasn't actually there in that moment so
he was very skeptical about the rash and
also the fainting in the falling down
and the panic and he said okay Elizabeth
let's think this through on a scale of 1
to 10 how sad are you and I'm like I
don't have any idea how sad I am now
because I have all this other going
on but I want to be a good patient I'm
trying to give the right answer and this
seems to be the process so I'm trying to
embrace it and I thought okay last time
I was here I was a six I don't know if
I'm feeling any better I don't know I
guess I'm a seven I said and he said I
don't think the paxil is working I think
that we should switch you to celexa also
a great medication and the literature
says it has fewer side effects exercise
that's another thing that's terrific for
depression so I was out at Green Lake
and I was going for a run wasn't really
a run because at this point I'd been
sort of reduced to kind of like a walk
jogger but I'm going around the lake and
I'm picking up speed
and all of a sudden I felt the hair on
the back of my neck just stand straight
up and I turned around and there was a
guy following me
I mean technically Green Lakes a circle
but he was following me and so I started
to pick up my pace and I turned around
again and I could see that he had a gun
in his jacket and I knew he was gonna
kill me and so I start
hauling ass and I make it to my car and
I am trying to figure out what's going
on because I know more certainly than
I've ever known anything in my life that
there was a guy following me around
Green Lake with a gun and at the same
time I know more certainly than I have
ever known anything in my life that
there was no guy following me around
Green Lake with a gun five months I've
been having these weekly check-ins with
dr. Martin Anna I just blurted out I
said listen man some really strange
things are happening in my apartment
there's a coffin in my kitchen sometimes
and this bloody girl keeps walking by my
window and I started hearing this this
static this sort of like hot like
there's an AM radio playing somewhere in
my apartment and then this voice said
Elizabeth and for weeks I didn't say
anything I didn't say anything and then
last night he said Elizabeth Elizabeth
and I said what and he said are you
reading Crime and Punishment and I said
oh my god yeah I am reading Crime and
Punishment and the psychiatrist said
okay whoa huh when you first came to see
me it was clear you were suffering from
depression but that's escalated to a
major depression with psychotic features
and I recommend that you start taking
zyprexa zyprexa is an anti-psychotic
medication and it's going to help you
not engage with this voice
I'd been waiting for that light to come
on for nine months and I'd actually
gotten really good at being sick I mean
so good in fact that my bosses had let
me come back to work but right around
this time I developed this new symptom
my bones had started to vibrate I mean
you couldn't see it on the outside but
inside I felt this sort of like another
feeling like someone had taken a tuning
fork to my bones and just gone like bum
bum bum so it's one night I'm at work
and I'm trying to make a margarita and I
can't do it because of the other of them
of the feeling so on a whim I did a shot
of tequila and I felt better and then a
few minutes later I did another shot of
tequila and I felt even better and then
I started to feel a little woozy so I
went into the bathroom and I did a line
of cocaine and that was it that was the
magic combination that turned the light
on inside me antipsychotics
antidepressants anti-anxiety meds
tequila and cocaine I was back behind
the bar I'm all aglow
everybody thinks on me that cocktail
that cocktail worked very well for me
for a while and it was September again
and dr. Martin had some very good news
for me there's a new antidepressant on
the market called lexapro and it's
better so I switch now I've been taking
the lexapro for about two weeks and I
start getting this headache and it
wasn't like any headache I'd ever had
before it was like these monsters moved
into my head and they didn't like it in
there and so they started to rip the top
of my skull apart every day this ripping
ripping ripping and finally it's
Halloween
and I am desperately trying to be normal
and so I'm handing out candy to the
little ghosts season goblins as they
come to my door and that's over and I'm
in my bedroom
and I don't know if it was headache or
the year that I'd had or this wave of
violence that sort of swept over me but
I saw the brick wall fireplace in my
bedroom and I went Bam Bam Bam
that was how I chose to kill myself so I
ended up in the psych ward oh here's a
tip if you find yourself in desperate
circumstances on a Friday night and
you're people feel like you should go to
the psych ward do everything you can to
wait till Monday because on Friday night
the real doctors apparently they take
off and on the weekend you just have the
b-team the second-string guys and
they're not allowed to make decisions
about anything anyway so Monday comes
and I meet with my team and they inform
me that I have the wrong insurance for
this hospital and they kick me out so my
mom gets me on a plane and I fly to
Boston to be with her so she can figure
out what's actually going on she takes
me to see six different doctors and I
got three totally different diagnoses I
got late onset schizophrenia major
depression with psychotic features and
my favorite bipolar - which as far as I
can tell is an illness that just got
completely made up for people who don't
respond well to antidepressants and my
mom's not buying it you know my mom
doesn't think I'm crazy
I mean she's known me my whole life and
also she's got training she's a
psychotherapist so she takes me to see
this colleague of hers a psychologist
and we're sitting in this woman's office
and my mom has to do all the talking
because at this point I have the
cognitive functioning of a potato
so my mom starts at the beginning and
she says well Elizabeth had ovarian
cysts and then depression I mean then
birth control pills followed by
depression and then paxil followed by
rash fainting and panic attacks and then
klonopin followed by paranoia and then
celexa followed by insomnia joint pain
cutting hallucinations and hearing
voices and then zyprexa followed by
weight gain restlessness night terrors
and bone vibrating and then the tequila
cocaine cocktail and then wellbutrin and
then AAA
and then lexapro followed by a headache
a suicide attempt a hospitalization the
diagnosis of a partial complex seizures
disorder and the onset of bulimia we've
been talking for about three hours and
the psychologist she leans forward in
her chair and she says Elizabeth I don't
think that you're crazy I think that
you're toxic and I was like what what
does that even mean and she said I think
the medication that you've been taking
to make you better is actually making
you sick I think the medication is
poisoning you and I was like no no way
no I have spent the last 18 months
completely investing in this idea that
I'm a crazy loon and now you're telling
me that none of it needed to happen
none of it needed to happen and she said
yes that's the hypothesis that I'd like
to work from for now so on the one hand
I have these experts the psychiatrists
telling me that they're certain that I
need this medicine or I'm going to hurt
myself or someone else and on the other
hand I've got my mom and this
psychologist who aren't certain about
anything
but think that there's a real chance
that maybe this medicines making me sick
so what do you think I did slowly over
months and months i detoxed and i got
sicker and more violent and i spent more
time locked in a psych ward but i got to
the other side nine days after being off
of the antidepressants the voices went
away by some miracle I did not end up
being the weird aunt living in the back
room at my mom's house I'm one of the
lucky ones really because I only spent
two and a half years locked inside this
iatrogenic illness but I think about how
it started I think about ovarian cysts I
think about how this talk is only 12
minutes long and how most patients don't
even get to spend 12 minutes with their
primary care doctor I think about the
people who walked into a doctor's office
today because they couldn't sleep last
night or they had back pain or they're
sad or shy or lonely or grieving or have
PMS or are basically just human and how
maybe they walked out with a
prescription for paxil it terrifies me
what do you think we should do thank you
you